Imagine being 12 years old, already having 30 bone fractures, and wondering, why can't I just play like other kids? I'm Leanne, and I was diagnosed with brittle bone disease. Now, I'm running the Bank of America as Chicago Marathon for Larry Children's. So, every kid can just be a kid. Join Bank of America in supporting Leanne's cause, give it to can at baveta.com slash support Leanne. What would you like the powers to do, Bank of America? References to charitable organizations is not endorsement by Bank of America Corporation. Every minute your finance team spends wrestling with data is a minute lost. Insight software's AI powered insights instantly move you from complexity to clarity. Automated analysis, real-time reporting, strategic recommendations, all at your fingertips. Transform how your finance team works and watch your business grow. Stop wasting time, start making smarter decisions. Learn more at insightsoftware.com slash AI. Secrets, cover ups, and strange phenomena. UFOs and ideas that challenge reality itself. All these mysteries, all this time, we're ever going to get to the bottom of these. My name is George Nap, I dig into new stories that others can't or won't. I'm Jeremy Corbel, and for some reason, people tell me things they probably shouldn't. And this is weapon weapons. We're back, we'll tell you mine. Oh my gosh, so much, man. Well, I guess we should start with a number of weeks ago, the new anticipated UFO report. Official UFO report came out from the government, and there's been a lot of reactions from, you know, dismissals in opinion articles in the New York Times to other people that got it right. But this was anticipated. We're supposed to come out on Halloween, right? Twenty-twenty-two. Here we are on twenty-twenty-three now. And finally, it's out. But. So they call it the twenty-twenty-two annual report on UAP, unidentified aerial phenomena. It's actually the twenty-twenty-three report since it did not come out in twenty-twenty-two. And looking at it, you know, the first impression you get is, nobody's going to wrench their backpick in this thing up. It's only a couple of pages. They got a title page, and then a table of contents page, and a couple of index pages at the back, and terminology, not much report here. I'm reminded of, remember when light beer first came out, the slogan was, tastes great, less filling. That's what comes to mind for this. Yeah, in defense of the depth of the report, it is a report of a classified report. It's a report that they did a classified report. But there are some really sneaky things that you brought to my attention that we're kind of done in this. And I'd like kind of people to know about this from a new standpoint. Well, you know, I think there's a difference between this report and the one that came out in twenty-twenty-one. The UAP task force report to Congress. It had a hundred and forty-four cases. It's at a hundred and forty-three. We're unidentified. This one has a lot more cases. They added, it's a five hundred and ten cases. So there's the goods news is that the reporting system that has been implemented is working. They even got reports from the U.S. Air Force that says in here, and the U.S. Navy primarily. We don't know where these incidents happen. There's almost no detail whatsoever. We don't know if they were in space, whether they were under sea, whether they're over U.S. air space, or the military encountered them somewhere on the world. Don't know what the size or shape or capabilities of these are. We know that there's indication that at least some of these cases are advanced technology that had capabilities that were really intriguing. But really, no details at all. I think the UFO public was prepared to be underwhelmed. Maybe not quite this underwhelmed. But I mean, overall, there's some good stuff. The fact that they reported it at all, that they're getting better at identifying what's truly unidentified and anomalous on what isn't, is pretty good. But we know that this is all domain. We know that these cases span from space air to sea. Now, that's not something obviously that's put out to the public. But that's why it's called all domain. That's why it's called Transmedium. So I think people got this title based on their bias, like wrong. I think the titles right in the report. There's a top of it. I think page five can we read that and want people to hear what they said. You know, continued reporting and robust analysis are providing better fidelity on UAP events. But many cases remain unresolved. That's right in the report. That's the headline. That is the important part. And then people try to cherry pick and say, all this stuff that we know is false. And they put it through major publications. You know, the mass media needs to look and read everything to be informed. It doesn't always happen. It seems like there was a concerted effort to water it down. I mean, this is the most exciting topic in the world. It's the biggest question in human existence in the history of civilization. Are we alone? It would change the world of what's we get a confirmation that there's another intelligent somewhere. They're out there or living among us here. It's huge. And they do their best to add this bureaucratic jingo type language that junk it up and to dilute how interesting it really is to to make it as least interesting as possible. It seemed like in the terms that they use. And you also think about like, you know, who are they that are doing this? If you just look at who writes certain types of articles, you get a sense that they're, this is not reporting. These are people that are inserting certain types of topographical, you know, premises that they come up with. They come up with biases they come up with. So if we just report the news, the line, I just read, that's the news. That's what's important. So look, I don't know what UFOs are. I don't. But I know that it's unexplained and that there's a mechanical aspect too. Well, they made a point of adding in a bunch of cases that I think were taken out of the original report. They said in the... Think of you know. Well, it says that they added in a hundred and some cases that had been left out. So adding these back in increased the total. But it allowed them to say, oh gosh, heck a lot of these are balloons. A heck a lot of these are drones. A lot of it is trash, which is, you remember the New York Times had this pre-bunking piece, where they predicted that's what this report is going to show. It's a bunch of drones, it's a bunch of balloons. Yes, drones exist. We're aware that birds fly in the sky. That's not anything new. I mean, UFOs 101, you learn that 90 to 95% of all UFO cases are explainable. If you get enough information, they're explainable. They are drones, they're balloons, they're planets, they're clouds, things that sort. That is the starting point for this conversation. We're aware that cases can be explained. We're also aware that while 90% are explainable, 9 out of 10 are not reported at all. Hold on, it just back up. I'm fucking record scratch. Okay. They excluded a bunch of cases because they were explainable, so let's now work on the ones that are not. What you're saying is they brought those cases back into be able to give these statistics. Yeah, it says it. The ODI preliminary assessment discussed 144 UAP reports and had an information cut off date of five March 2021. Since then, arrows received 247 new UAP reports, but an additional 119 UAP reports on events that occurred before March 5th, 2021. But we're not included in that assessment have been discovered or reported. So they took them that have been discarded and put them back in and allows them to sort of dilute the overall impact of this. By saying, oh gosh, these are explainable. And we know who discarded them. So they could focus on the true UAP mystery. And this was a slide of hand. Is that what you're saying? Oh, it's a little deceptive, I think. You know, by adding those back in that they already know or explainable. The reason they were kicked out is because they're explainable. Is it fair to say that there's a minimization process that's occurring to the public? They're trying to minimize some of the gravity of this to the public. Is that fair to say? Well, they brought back in cases that are explainable. They dumb down the language. Made it as clunky as possible. And as least interesting as possible. Trying to make it less dramatic. Almost as if hey, there's really nothing to see here, folks. We did our duty. We got this report. We now have processes in place that where it makes it easier to report this stuff. But we're explaining it. Don't you worry you're pretty little heads kind of thing. And one of the reasons we know about that process for the first report is because you and I were able to talk to the chief scientist for the UAP task force. That's right. And he's a guy who is well-known to our listeners, to viewers from television. Dr. Travis Taylor has been on ancient aliens number of times. He's been on the Secret of Skinwalker Ranch at the past couple of years. A well-known as a scientist who is interested in the UFO and related mysteries. What most people don't know is that he was serving as the chief scientist for the UAP task force. We learned that and we're floored by it on a trip. We made two Alabama last last fall, a last summer. I learned about it before, but you reported on it first. You told people about that. And it kind of threw people for a loop because they know from TV, you know from this. But look, this guy's a serious scientist. And he's done a lot of work. And he was sp...

typically brought in and tasked because he had certain skill sets that would be good for this job. And we know who brought him in and it's so interesting man. I want to get to something we had this crazy trip. You want to start talking about that? Yeah. All right. For anybody that doesn't know mine and George's friendship and working together once in a while, I get some call from George and it's like pack your bags. We got to go get films. We're doing an interview. And you know just immediately I know oh gosh, so this is the thing now. So my perspective, I've actually never told you this. My perspective was, okay, George has hopefully a really important interview to hear from somebody that could shed light to the American public who's never gone on camera. And this is kind of the background. You kind of gave me, you know, this could happen. But there's also an event going on before we get to that. I'm just like, okay, let me adjust my life to like leave in a few days. I needed a second camera. I don't even know how to do aperture right, you know, professional filmmaker. I don't even know how to do this stuff right. I knew this is important. I was like, I need somebody. I called up my buddy Niles Harrison. He's laying on the beach in Mexico, right, where he just bought a house. And I'm like, I need you on a plane right now. Just, I need to get you to Vegas. And he's like, well, I got all my stuff and we have to put it in storage. This dude, Niles Harrison dude, you're my idol man. He packed everything up. And in two days, he landed in Vegas to meet us to be the DP or the backup for us. The only guy could trust, you know? And I still don't know what the mission is. So I can't tell him the mission, you know? So it's just like this fun kind of experience where I'm like, we get to Vegas, I'm like, what's going on, you know, and we hop right on a flight. So just so you know, I mean, it was, it was crazy man. This is how it works with you. And me is sometimes I call you something as you call me. And it's time to go. Well, the premise for this, there were, there were multiple reasons to make this trip. Huntsville, Alabama is a defense hub. A lot of interesting defense contractors have grown up around there. Of course, it's Rocket City. It's where the, it's where the birthplace of the U.S. base program really was, Warner Bond, Brown and his team were all down there. I didn't even know where we were going. Yeah, you know, you're now you're saying it, but like you said, you tell me, okay, let we're going to Huntsville, my Huntsware and you're like Huntsville, I'm like, why? Well, in a sense, you know, I hate to admit this, but Huntsville has become sort of the de facto UFO research capital of America for a long time. For the past 30 years, it's been Las Vegas because of Robert Bigelow, his needs organization that became bass that was headquarters for the Ossap program, which that's a lot of acronyms, but that program was the largest UFO investigation ever funded by the U.S. government that we know of. And so, because of Bigelow and Colin Keller her and their colleagues in Las Vegas, Las Vegas was a hub for this research. I think Huntsville might now have that title because of all the people who are concentrated there, the defense contractors that have grown up around the U.S. rocket program, the U.S. Army's Redstone Arsenal is there. In addition to the defense contractors and the rocket programs and a lot of government agencies, there is also a UFO organization, SCU, the scientific coalition for UAP studies. Headed by a guy named Rich Hoffman, he's put together a team of scientists. They've done some great analyses on key cases. The Puerto Rico UFO that was looked like a transmedium for one thing and they did a tech tech paper. They're doing some great work, but they have an annual conference. I've been invited to go to each one of them and finally I wanted to go because they only had a really great lineup of speakers, but I had a feeling that the audience might be more interesting than the people who are up there on the dance given the speeches. Does it ever feel like you're a marketing professional just speaking into the void? But with LinkedIn ads, you can know you're reaching the right decision makers and network of 130 million of them, in fact. You can even target buyers by job title industry company, seniority skills, and did I say job title? See how you can avoid the void and reach the right buyers with LinkedIn ads. Spend $250 on your first campaign and get a free $250 credit for the next one. Get started at LinkedIn.com slash campaign in terms and conditions apply. The drip and satisfy your cravings. Bring home the drip with Velvita. Okay, so to back up, so there is, you know, these UFO study groups, but this is one that really focuses on the science and technology and it gets great speakers and members and we know people just come into quietly silently listen that they might be interesting people because it's in rocket city, but you had an idea that we were going to get a specific interview, but at this point you're telling me, we're going to this conference, it's a UFO conference, I come on George and you're like, no, no, it's a cool one. It's like science and I'm like, all right, I texted it, uh, Ryan Graves, you know, the fighter pilot that everybody knows now and I just wanted to get a beer with him because we had talked so much and so that was, I was like, okay, I'm coming with me, we're Ryan, we're going to have a beer and that didn't end up happening. We ended up missing each other two ships in the night, but we met a number of really interesting people and we're able to get some first-ever interviews with people that we're going to come forward and also recorded with and talked with individuals who people don't know yet, but are also critical and essential to the UFO puzzle and what's going on with in government and Congress and different intelligence agencies looking at this, I mean, just straight up, it was fascinating. We had fun, and we're driving at a car, you think I'm going to kill us, you know, we're making jokes about green pyramids. Our primary concern is getting their life, which is not a given, and the light of the fact that Jeremy is the person driving. Yeah, the navigator. And the navigator, yeah. Hopefully we arrive in one piece. Oh, fuck, there was a little work in guy with a goddamn pyramid. It always had a pyramid or triangle, but that's just a drone. That's construction work. So that's not a pyramid that you see right there. Well, it's a guy building a pyramid. Oh, yeah, for the guy building, so is it like the government building a pyramid? Would that be accurate to say? You could go in for that. I'm staying. I'm going to. And also record. I fucking drive. Then we had a we had a lot of fun, but what happens next, George? I mean, this is a really neat moment for us. So I had hoped that we'd be able to land this really important interview with someone who has never spoken on camera before has never interacted with the media in a way where he could be quoted. Someone I have known for a long time. You protected his name. I could never mention his name. I, you know, I've known about him. And then I got to know him. I happen to know that he loves Linda Mishua Khan, this Mexican restaurant in Las Vegas, and has been known to hang out there. He's he's worked with the nids guys with Bigelow and Callahar and some of those folks. We'll go into more detail on that in a moment. But there he is. We now know that he had relocated to Huntsville. One of my favorite stories of last year that we produced for KLA S and Mystery Wire was about this company. This defense contractor in Huntsville, Alabama that put out an amazing seemingly innocuous release about two men they had hired. Actually there were two releases. The one was an announcement that they had hired a guy named Jay Stratton who had been a lifelong intelligence officer who had worked at the Pentagon in very high level positions for a number of years. And I was astonished to see his name released in the public because it's been forbidden that I could ever mention it. So that's the guy. That's the guy. Jay Stratton. The world doesn't really know Jay Stratton. I mean, some people figured it out. There's been little things now that have come out. But at that time you had kind of held back. So but the quite the big question is who's Jay Stratton? Jay Stratton. So if anyone who's read the book Skinwalkers at the Pentagon written with Dr. James LeCatsky and Colin Keller, there are references to this guy in there. I don't want to use the name Jay Stratton. He used a different name, but references to a high level guy, a really credible intelligence officer who was involved in a key positions in these UFO programs. Ossap, A-tip, the UAP task force and arrow. He is the only person who has involved in all of those who is sort of the common link from the start of Ossap through the creation of arrow and continues, I think, to advise the folks who are involved with that. There's only one guy that's been there for that whole trip who has worked with Ossap and then Luel as under with A-tip and created, in essence, the UAP task force who got the government to ship from using the term UFO to UAP who's work. We'll talk about some examples of it. Back up, you just said, Jay Stratton, did you just say Jay Stratton created the UAP task force? Yeah. Okay, so that would explain to me why Numerous-

For us, military, act of military individuals were so stoked to see J. Stratton's name come out. And I said, why? And they're like, because this is the one individual who is credible military intelligence, who's where DIA, who's working tons of programs in ONI, all these different intelligence agencies that has pushed not only to be honest and true to the American public, but to create an interface so that we could honestly bring forward to the American public what we know and don't know about the UFO or what he helped systematized UAP process. And the reason he said he did that was to destigmatize reporting of UFOs. So this guy is trying to destigmatize reporting of UFOs, trying to systematize it. So that reporting becomes better as a learning process as bumpy as it is. People would put reports in from let's say the nimmits or any of these encounters. They wouldn't hear back. They thought it got lost in the ether. They didn't want to get mental checks. But he made it cool to report and learned along the way. I respect that. So a lot of military people are like, that is so amazing to get him to talk because he's talking for us. We don't have voices. He's got a voice for us. So I just want to tell you that's what I've gotten a lot of. So that's who we're talking about. Talking about a very serious, credible individual who's worked in intelligence capacity, who's done the right thing and he's done the right thing in a way to help destigmatize and communicate with the American public. So we don't have the same problems as Project Bluebook, the cover what's in his own words. What Roswell did to the situation, the lies from our government. I think it's, so now I know we might be interviewing this guy and that's really cool. Well, I learned that he was going to be there, that he and his colleague Travis Taylor were going to be at this event, this SCU conference. They're going to be in the audience. It was sort of the coming out party in a sense. Both had been hired to work by Radiance Technologies and the releases when they were each of them was hired. Jay was hired first and then he convinced Radiance that, hey, Travis Taylor is a really qualified guy. He's the guy I'd like to work with here and they hired him as well. And the releases for both of those guys were astonishing in that unlike most defense contractors, they don't want to talk about UFOs. I don't want to mention it. They don't want to give it any credence, even some of them who probably have a deeper roots with the topic than they cared to admit, they don't highlight it. This Radiance Technology, those releases both bragged about, in essence, they highlighted the fact that both these guys had worked on UFO programs for the US government. It was as if they were saying, this is no longer a forbidden topic. We want to be involved in it at every level. In fact, if you got some UFO contracts to give out to private industry, we're ready to go. I think I can get away with saying this. I think it's fine, but so we filmed that Radiance, that's okay. You did a news report, how cool to be shown what we were able to be shown. We couldn't film what they're doing there. To some degree, I mean, obviously they have offices at Wright Patterson for their technology company. But with what they could show us, we had to get the special badges which we couldn't even photograph. All that stuff. Do you remember when I was pushing him, I was like, that's a skiff. Let me see inside the skiff. I don't believe it. Let me see inside the skiff. I don't do that to everybody. He's not going to show you. And then they're finally like, okay, you can peek inside the door, but they don't say a word. There's something going on in there. But it's okay. It's okay. I think I can, yeah. I didn't believe him opened that door. Holy cow. I mean, there was some cool stuff going on. Bam, close the door. It was nice to them to let me peek and just to verify, you know what? It's a cool company. It's a lot of ways. It's owned by the employees. The employees own. Everybody benefits from if they, when they do well. They have offices in 17 states, nearly all of them are attached to or within US Air Force bases. So they're at Wright Patterson. They're at Nellus, two bases that we know have a long history of involvement with the subject that is near and dear to our heart. And so they do serious work. You can see hints of it on their website. The kind of things they do. But essentially, that company does reverse engineering work, which in the UFO world, that term is laden with, with hidden meaning, you know, it suggests taking things apart to figure out how they work, things that we did not build. But they do that. And Jay Stratton, who went to work for him, specialized in reverse engineering. And not just technology, not just systems, machinery, but in situations. When he worked for the DIA, he would reverse engineer potential threats, figure out who might be flying what their capabilities were and what kind of systems we might need to counter that. I mean, he was, he was a top expert in that kind of work. And we'll allow him to maybe explain some of the jobs that he held at the Pentagon. Definitely. And additionally, you know, I also want to be clear, we weren't shown anything we weren't supposed to see. But it was just neat that we got that tour and be able to see in certain rooms. Obviously, they keep a real kind of locking key. But I just got to say it was such a cool experience for a company like that to be so open for the first time with journalists coming in there and even the President sat down and did an interview and you did a report on it. It really shows that they're interest in the reverse engineering and things. I'm sure they would love to have some of the goodies. And they would be great company. Well, yeah. I said it. All right. You hired Jay Stratton. You hired Dr. Travis Taylor. It sounds like maybe you guys are taking a part of flying saucer or building one and they kind of joked about it. Well, yeah, we kind of like to do that if we got a chance to. Yeah, yeah. You know, it's so compartmentalized with a company like that, the President even told us, it's like, he has tons of projects going on that he is not read into because that's, you know, that's how it's stovepipe. So with this company out there and you and I going out there and getting people were approaching us that were told to approach us. And that was really interesting to me because I was having so much at that thing that there were people in the audience, the people still don't know who they are. And they trusted us with numerous things which will be coming public at some point. Yeah. Well, we went there with some goals and minds as if they goals and talking to Jay Stratton and to Travis Taylor would have been if that was all we got that would be awesome. We didn't know for sure if that was going to happen, but that's what we went there to do. And then we ended up meeting a bunch of other people who introduced themselves and began a dialogue with us that I think we were bare fruit throughout this whole year. And I was like, okay, you know, we're going to film this. I got my buddy all the way from, you know, he flew in from Mexico and here we go. And then I was like, oh, no, man, we're not recording in a hotel room. I was like, oops, not about that. You know, visually, but we had to do it kind of private. We needed to make sure that it was the information was well documented. Another thing that, so when we started the interview, something that Jay said kind of right away, that was so interesting to me was that all sap from that very onset was technological. It was technology. It was about discovery of disruptive technologies. And you look at all the durs and the reports, and obviously they're thinking forward looking 30, 50 years from now. What could be a disruptive technology? No matter where it's from, what could be a disruptive technology. And then he said, but look, where the evidence led is that there were other things that we learned. There was a disruptive technology aim, but that there were a lot of other things they learned when they were studying things like the ranch. So that really threw me for a loop that, you know, something like, OASAP came in with the idea of identifying future threats. And then realized, wow, there's a lot more going on. He talked about that in his interview with us. So we spoke his off. That's just this one. Yeah. Yeah. Eyes off. And of large or off. I came with our own statement. A.B. Comment marker. Okay. Jay, you've done it on camera interview before. Have you done interviews before? So it's the first. I mean, your world is the black world. Last night's time. Right? Can you give me broad strokes of your career, the highlights, and I kind of secure a program to your work now? Sure. You know, I started military. I was a full-time reservist with the Air Force, and then I moved up to Maryland to work at Pax River to do weapons integration with the F-18 flight test out of Navier. And from there, I went to the Office of Naval Intelligence, where I was recruited to be an air space engineer, working with them, to look at, you know, really apply the blue knowledge as we call it, and apply it to the red, and potential adversaries, and right up, reports on what I think foreign capabilities can do or not do, in a sense, reverse engineering. Absolutely. And take that into DIA, went over to the Defense Intelligence Agency, to work in the Defense Warning Office, where I was applying the same knowledge, but at a higher level, and more kind of orchestrating the intel community at that point. And there's a term we use validation, whereas if you're building an F-22, or you're building a joint strike fighter, you know, you're really kind of designing that to counter a potential threat, and that potential threat needs to be a validated threat, because what we can't have happen is a Lockheed Martin or Boeing, you know.

Spending tons of money against a threat that they say exists where the government needs to say it exists. So it's kind of a contractual thing of you're building to the validated threat and that's what I did at the Defense Intelligence Agency. Along with also having a science and technical intelligence hat with the Defense of Warning Office to look across the spectrum at technology specifically air and space that are leading edge things that could be disruptive and challenges in the future. We're looking 10, 20, and sometimes 50 years out depending on the topic and trying to provide the Department of Defense and across the Intel community a better understanding of some of those potential disruptive threats so that we could get ahead of the game and counter them. When you're at DIA, I'm ignorant of this stuff, but you are Navy guy who then goes to work for DIA. Does that mean you're a Navy guy with DIA or you're always a Navy guy? So when I transitioned to the Office of Naval Intelligence, I came to the service. So I'm a Navy employee with the national and tell community. So your service centers, the Office of Naval Intelligence, the nasic, national air and space and tell center, the missile and space and tell center is a sub component of the DIA that's here in Huntsville and then you have the NCIA, which is a Marine Corps intelligence activity and then finally the National Ground Intel Center at Charlottesville. Those are the four of what we call service centers and now you're going to have one for the space force, co-located at right-pattest and air force space. Those are service centers that support the analysis that supports the Navy or supports the Marine Corps, supports the Army, but in reality they are all funded by the Director of National Intelligence now, the ODI and I, as National Intel funded billets that are able to support. So people refer to the ODI, the Office of Naval Intelligence is the Navy's Intel Center. The reality is it's the National Maritime Intel Center where we are the threat at the maritime and when you think of Navy too, you got to remember that Navy is the Navy, but the Navy also has an Air Force and the Navy has an Army and the Navy's Army has an Air Force, right? So it's a big service. With that, when I have a big footprint and a big concern, but in all of that, the key in bringing up that the ODI and I funds the four service centers is very important because back to the threat that justifies the building of new systems and such, right? The Air Force really wants a program. They might go to an Asia and say, we need a threat to drive that program and we are funded by the National side of the house, so we can say, well, we don't take orders from the Air Force in that regard, we'll take orders from the Navy so we can, you know, this is the assessment, right? That's driven out of treecraft and that's the answer. It's going to independent, you know? It's a very independent, and a lot of people don't realize that, you know, they look at those service Intel centers as kind of parts of the Air Force parts of the Army. They are on paper, but in reality, you know, the majority of their budget comes from the National. So, you have high security clients, you sense it if you stop the sensitive as you get. The author of my career, so from there, you know, do you want back to ODI to be the head of Air Warfare? Really? That was the deputy initially, then the fleet it up was, we say, to be the director of Air Warfare for ODI. And when I first went back, we had everything that touches there in the Navy, so science and technical side as well as the operational and tactics side, we call it spear is kind of the nickname for the name that that organization uses. We've got a history all the way back to Desert Storm. If you watch Top Gun originally Charlie, that's briefing the Migs, she was based on a spear analyst. So, the group that I led has that kind of pedigree of talking about how capabilities operate. So, you know, your National Intel Center, it nasic, for example, right, can talk about a Russian fighter and you know, just throw an example when you, everybody knows we look in Russia. A Russian fighter talk about how fast it flies, how high it can fly based on it in their assessments, right? What spear does is we get into the head of the pilots, and we try to talk about how they're going to fly that aircraft. You know, when the analogies they've used for years is hockey players, right, every hockey player has an out of skate, some of them are better than the others, but it's really about the game, right? It's about everything else but skating, skating comes second. So if you think about that and apply it to a fighter aircraft, it's how they're, how they're deploying that, right? And guys, what my background can watch, somebody flying an airplane and go, man, he's probably Russian, right? You know, whoever, right, everybody, that's probably American, so, you know, you really can recognize some of the techniques and the way they do things. You know, if mutual friend of ours was trying to describe how high up you went and he compared you to a two-star animal, that wasn't accurate exactly. You weren't comfortable with that, but how would I explain to our audience how far up the wrong you went? I'm sure it's, it's right in, and I didn't want to really push any buttons with that. So from, oh, and I went to the Pentagon and I worked in in two and six, which is the headquarters level for naval intelligence. The director of naval intelligence is, is dual-headed is what we call the in two and six, was just the, you know, the op-nav office code. At that point, I was still a 15, and then I went off to be the J2, the director of intelligence for the joint warfare in health, the center of Dahlgren, and then from there I was promoted initially to what we call tier one, defense intelligence senior level, tier one, which is a, as a senior executive position, and then was, well, then eight months or so, I was bumped up to a tier two, which is where the two-star comes in, you know, it's an equivalency throughout my career, it's been, you know, are you really equal, right? We always throw out GS-15s or kernels or, you know, there's an equivalency, but you don't go bustling around the Pentagon saying, oh, how rank you, or, you know, so, right, yeah, but you do have the, the gravitas, if that's a good word to use, that's not a good word to use, the kind of the, the peer level, right? So, you know, if I'd go into a meeting with a two-star or one-star, you know, kind of have a peer level, so I'm not put in, in a corner, you know, and typically in my meetings, I, you know, I was there representing someone higher than me, as well as, sometimes I'm representing myself, but sometimes I'm there representing someone higher than me, so then I inherit their authority, I'm sitting at their seat with their name on it, so I'm speaking for that person, I wouldn't be interested in that meeting if I couldn't speak for that person, and a lot of that in the Pentagon is resource sponsoring, so, you know, I said in many tables where I was representing the resource sponsor, and that gets attention because acquisition programs at your Navier, your NAVC, your Air Force material command, those are all built on requirements back to the thread, right? And, and those requirements are paid for by resource sponsors, so the resource sponsor says, we need a new jammer, and, and from that resource sponsor, requirements are driven, and then capabilities are built, and they go to whoever can build that capability, whether that's Navier or that's Nav, you know, whoever that might be, right? So, so in those circles, you know, you get to know a lot of people, and that helped me later to really kind of know who I need to reach out to. Can you describe for me at what point UFOs they were called then, UFOs now, at what point that kind of got on your radar screen, was there something that you had at least a casual interest in growing up, or it came a point in your professional career that it landed on your desk? Yeah, every time I've done anything related to UAP or UFO has been my job. And, and what I mean by that, I didn't really have a passion growing up, I didn't have all the books, I didn't watch all the TV shows, I stepped into a job, I had the Defense Intelligence Agency, where some things came across the desk, again, thinking technologies and other things, where I needed to really kind of dig in and understand potentials, and those potentials, you know, I kept an open mind, a skeptic mind, whatever you want to call it, you know, looking for something that can answer this, and all the means that I had to chase that, but there were definitely some times where we really couldn't close the loop. And with that, we realized that something needed to be done about it. We should maybe just fill in our listeners about Hal J. Stratton ended up studying UFOs and related mysteries, because he made it clear to us in our conversation with him. He's not a UFO guy. He's not sitting at home watching UFO videos on YouTube. He'd watch guitar playing videos on YouTube, but not UFOs. He didn't have a whole bunch of books. He didn't have an biting interest in it, but he ended up moving from Office of the Naval Intelligence over to DIA, and it became an acquaintance and colleague of Dr. Jim LaCascie, who was the creator of eventually became the creator of the OSAP program. What became OSAP, and LaCascie had an interest in in Skinwalker Ranch, in the book that Callum and I, Callum Keller, heard I wrote. And while we'll let Jay Stratton explain how that process went. I can remember telling our mutual friend, Dr. LaCascie, right, that some of this stuff, I don't, and I hate saying the word now, because I have so much more background, but the word believe, right? The belief isn't there, necessarily, that I'm seeing what I think, or was being reported, right? So that evolution between 2006, and then to 2008, at that time, I had to go to Iraq, just normal deployment, and because we did to place civilians. A lot of people don't realize that civilians are just on the hope, just like military. In 2006 and 7th time for him, as we were trying to think about this problem said, Jim LaCascie says,

Basically, I made the comments on the effect of, I'd love to see one with my own eyes. And one I meant by one is a nuts and bolts craft, right? Because in my mind, that's why I'm a technology aerospace guy. I'm thinking the craft that I can go touch and put my hands on, right? Or I'd like to see one of these things in person. And I'm just getting ready to go. And Jim was always tracking the ranch. And he kind of made a joke. I don't even see it's a joke. A comment of, hey, there's one place in the world. We might see one of these things as this place. And he hands me your book. And I throw the book in my backpack and literally took it to a rack with me. So I read that book in the green zone and in my downtime. And before I even got back, we're talking and things are proceeding along. But so I come back. And at that time, we were initially, the defense warning office in the IA was at the die act we called the Defense Intelligence Analysis Center at Bowling Air Force Base. Now, granted, I was flight test back in the day as Pax River and Naval Air Station, which is in St. Mary's County, Maryland. So I still live there. And I never sold my house throughout this whole process because I liked where I lived. But I was making really terrible commutes. So I agreed to work at the Defense Intelligence Agency and made that commute. And then the process they transferred us, 14 miles through the city to another place. And I can remember the quote to this day. There's also only 14 miles J, but it's 14 miles of DC hell, right? You're going through the commute there. So anyway, we end up in this place. It's called Clarenod. And it was really killing me physically. You know, just to drive every day and the stress of that. I love the job, but the stress of getting there in home. And in 2008, oh, when I offered me the position to come back and be the Deputy Director of Warfare, which was a lot better commute. And I love the one I, I kind of grew up there and in the Intel community. So I took that job and left. Dr. Ocaschi stayed in touch. But that contract, it was already in the beginnings. And then in 2009, if I remember my time-longing rate, he put it on Fed Bizzops to be bid. And they had two bidders that I remember. I won't be in Bob Bigel, Bigel of Airspace and other being a company that I don't remember the name of, but it was a company that did a lot of business with DIA and kind of that contract rolled. You know, you have your favorite customers in your favorite. But there were more than one bid. I didn't know what funny business that you can see. It was none at all. It was. And I know all of the leadership, right? I worked there, worked for them. They're the most straightforward honest people that you can imagine. And they could not, I could never in a million years imagine them taking any kind of favoritism in their account. I guarantee they went over everything very detail and made a decision based on the best response to the proposal that they had. They fire up this program, Bigel of Airspace and Springs in Action, they create these 38 papers. We've heard that described as junk science. Do you recall how those papers were received when they came out? So what I remember, so LaCatski, Dr. LaCatski, that was driving that and our colleague, Dr. Howe put off, kind of led the charge there, supporting Bigel of Airspace. And the idea of them in my mind was awesome, right? I'll have this reference document that I can always go back to on all these different technologies. They did come back being really academic, right? Very high level, academic, whereas we're dealing with the defense intelligence agency that the predominance is the liberal arts degree. And there were on terrorism, was hot and heavy, right, we're hiring people who are experts in that culture and hiring some people just because they speak Arabic, and all these things, it wasn't. We weren't hiring the best and brightest engineers at the time because it just wasn't the need to do the DIA. So if you take all of that into context and you realize your average GIA analyst is going to look at that with their polysci or history background and go, what is this, right? Whereas other folks out AFRL and folks with the educational background and look at it and go, oh, this is interesting. But they may say some of it is junk science because it is bleeding edge and that's what we wanted. We wanted to know what they thought is the leading expert on a potential technology, what would be pushing the edge of that envelope because I needed something to point back to if I saw something in any kind of reporting and I could say, look, based on Dr. XYZ, that wrote this report, that's significant. You've seen what else was produced by a set of that 27 months, I mean, it's a lot of stuff. But a lot of it is some of it is pretty weird. I mean, the skinlock, right? I've heard it said now, people who wanted to integrate the program that it was nonsense. It got off and all this weird paranormal stuff. I was never what it was supposed to be. And it was a waste of money. And that's why it was canceled because it got into these weird topics that are just too far out. In general, can you address the work that was done by all that? The reports that you've read that haven't made public were those worthwhile on it? So I think, so I'm back at O and I at this point, right? So my day-to-day interaction with the contract and with bass was not there. I didn't have that day-to-day. However, Dr. LeCatsky and I, again, he wants to pick my brain on things that are being seen. And I'm still in a role where I'm concerned about threats to aviation and those types of things, right? So it's good to keep me and the team that I had and my larger role-to-decks of experts across the Intel community. So it was good to keep me up to speed. The heart and soul of O sap was those technology areas and the heart and soul of those technology areas of preventing a disruptive technology. The other stuff that came out of that was collateral. You know, if you go to the ranch to see a nuts and bolts craft that you might be able to put your hands on and you see other things that you can't explain, no one to this day can explain. Is it something to do with the technology? Is it an effect on the body? Is it something that's driving you to see things that aren't really there? You know, all those things needed to be studied. And again, throughout this whole process, I'm learning. All of this comes into the forefront later with the bigger task force and knowing what I needed and knowing the kinds of expertise that I needed and that true diversity may not mean, whether you're from a certain country or you're, I think background or anything else. Or true diversity, maybe just clearly the way you think based on your own background that is kind of an asymmetric approach to the technology area, right? For example, hiring biologists to look at the terrorist network and the thread that of radical Islam and how it spreads like a virus, right? You take that same mindset to other things and the various phenomena that we're seeing. It's important to bring in that kind of diversity just as it's just purely the way they think. And I always like to bring in folks with that kind of background that didn't have a military background because now they're not in this box and this viewpoint that they're always trying to mold things into, they're coming at you with, well, have you thought about this, right? And that is where the true power of those, and those papers come from too because then you've got to be something to point back to you to say, hey, take a look at this, what do you think, right? To another academic or, and how could you see that applied? The family that vacations together, stays together. At least that was the plan. It accepts now the dester Lee Desklerk is saying, he can't confirm your connecting rooms. Wait, what? That's right, ma'am, you have rooms 201 and 709. No, we cannot be five floors away from our kids. The doors of double locks will be fine. When you want connecting rooms confirmed before you arrive, it matters where you stay. Welcome to Hilton. I see your connecting rooms are already confirmed. Hilton, for this day. Okay, Chad, today you're going to drive the all-electric Toyota BZ. But my electric vehicle, phobia. I'm not ready, Dr. Ross. I believe in you. Oh my gosh, we're inside it. Try to take deep breaths, okay? Move the ventilated seats, they're touching me! We can do this, Chad. Drive the car, how do you feel, Chad? I feel... Kurt! Woohoo! I'm doing it! I'm doing it! The all-electric BZ, one drive can change your mind. Toyota, let's go places. So Jay Stratton is not a UFO guy. He's, I don't know if you say, a career intelligence officer, but oh and I, to DIA, that the UFO thing hits at him and he realizes there's a void there. We need to do this, right? There are potential threats. We don't know where they're coming from. So I'm going to create the UAP Task Force and we're going to look at this in a badass way. And we're going to be clear with the American public. He also made sure to put that in. We're going to be clear with the American public. He did that for a while and then he had a break, right? From, it wasn't his job. And during the time he was doing intelligence in another field, are we up to that point in the story? So the public, the UFO public, is aware of the programs that Jay Stratton was involved in. We've mentioned the names of those. What they don't know is there are already familiar with some of his work. For example,

In 2018, I released through Kayleus and Mystery Wire a 13-page report about the Tic-Tac incident. Tic-Tac occurred in 2004. Your friend, Commander Dave Fraver, is the aviator for the Navy that had the direct encounter with this strange object five years later when Ossap is born. The first case they start looking at is Tic-Tac. And the person they came to rely on to write the first report and investigate a report on Tic-Tac was Jay Stratton. I released that report in 2018. It had no insignion, it wasn't signed, it doesn't say who wrote it. But we could say now, he's the guy wrote it. And it was great work. He talked to all these aviators and different people who were involved in it. It is one report that then became a much bigger report that has not been made public, but eventually will be someday. So that's one bit of work that he did. A second thing that the public would know about is the durds. There are 38 of these durds, defense intelligence referenced documents, that's the acronym what it means. And 38 of those reports were prepared for the Ossap program and as Jay explained to us when we met with them, you know, it was meant to be a baseline to establish what our baseline is for a science and technology in specific kinds of categories and to project what it might be 50 years from now. You know, I remember when I made some of those, when you and I release some of those reports, people were gripping and moaning, all this is sci-fi, it's nonsense, it's garbage science. Well, it's not, that's not how it was received by the defense industry. They love those reports because it works a really good work. And they needed a baseline from which they could compare when they had UFO cases to analyze, is this ours? Could it be ours? Could we duplicate that 50 years from now in the, in many times the answer was no? Right. And Jay actually talked about this in this interview that we did, it's like he was saying, look, we were trying to find the disruptive technologies in 50 years from now. The things that we were seeing, the things that we're going on, we didn't have good explanations for. So we have to theorize and get out there like what could it be, how could it be happening? It's so interesting to me the way he also said he was so dismissive in a, in a, in a calm, cool, collected way because he really empathizes with people to have less information than him. And I get that. So certain things that are classified within our department of defense, he can't just like go out on Twitter and say, even if he gets on Twitter, you know what I mean? But he was very clear that if something was identifiable, if something was ours, if something was a traditional object or a known foreign nation, or even a question that could be a foreign nation that a known, despite the capabilities, that those would not be included in his reporting, in his analysis. And he really specifically said, you know, I get it that people think it's just one piece of evidence like just a video, but you and I are hyper personally aware that there's other corroborative evidence that is not for public consumption. Jason said himself that we had more information. And so when you say, oh, it's, you know, birds, balloons, optical illusions, reflections, pilot error. He's like bullshit. It's not. We would never have included it. And it's nice to hear him say that because it carries a lot more weight than just, you know, it actually supports the pilots and people that know because they were there. Exactly. I mean, you know, the, the armchair experts, the debunkers on social media just throw anything out. And see what sticks against the wall. It's birds. It's, you know, it's exhaust from a jet. It's ridiculous is what it is. And, you know, for that explanation to work, any of those, you have to assume the U.S. military are idiots, that the pilots are idiots, that people, manning the sensors are idiots, that the analysis done by intelligence officials afterward, that they're all idiots, that they don't recognize a bird from, you know, an unknown object traveling at a high rate of speed. Jay did share with us that there is so much information that cannot be shared with the public for national security reasons, that went into their analyses of these key cases, gimbal, tick-tack, go fast, and a lot of others that you and I got into. So he worked with OSAP with Bigelow and Colum and Lakatski and any developed relationships and other parts of the Pentagon and the intelligence community that served him well years later. These seven months after OSAP starts, it ended. And then Luelizando comes along, picks up the pieces, creates what came to be known as a tip, and Jay was directly involved with that. Well, I don't also Jay developed, it was so cool hearing him talk about this. He developed what he said was like asymmetrical approaches, so he would get people in different fields because they had different ways to solve problems and he would get them with their specialties like a biologist that would look at the spread of information a little bit differently. So I really appreciated the way that he would take an intelligence approach to problems that haven't been solved in traditional means. So my point is he actually developed staff and teams and this was a big deal. I think that what he did in developing, and for people that don't know, so OSAP, we keep saying that, it's a barrier to repeat advanced aerospace weapon systems application program. That was the largest, best funded government, DIA UFO program in history that is publicly known. And then as that transition, it turned into a tip, advanced aerospace threat identification program. So those are the acronyms that we keep talking about, but I think it's important to show that there's individuals and intelligence agencies that are taking this seriously and building infrastructure for better reporting and want to be transparent with the American public, to the degree that is safe with, you know, with problems, with foreign problems, that's so encouraging. I love that there are a multitude of agencies now that are developing beyond an interest, but a process to help bring this information to where it needs to go. It will make you and me obsolete, maybe it's journalists, but it's great, it's happening. OSAP, the DIA program lasted 27 months and then, you know, because of it, it got into some pretty controversial areas and became a hot potato within depending on intelligence community. Louis Osando steps forward and was able to keep something going of a form of the program. It's not as big, it's not as high profile, but he kept it going and was upset eventually that it just didn't get enough attention. It didn't get enough resources to be able to do the work they really needed. J, who was working with Lou, their good friends, a lot of mutual respect between the two of them, moved on to another job. He was aware, as he told us, he was aware that Louis Osando was going to leave and the reasons why he was going to leave was upset. He was not aware that the New York Times story was going to come and then boom and happens one day. So that's a funny thing. So Lou, I mean, really, people just don't get this, but Lou is a champion. I mean, he took something and he kept it going and he made it strong and, you know, I think and I think J really appreciates that. You can tell from the conversations. So we get to the point where J is now out of the UFO topic, that's not his task with his intelligence job, so he's doing something else. And the way he said it to us was so cool is on December 17th, you know, whatever it was, 2017 when the New York Times thing, somebody put a paper bang right on his desk and says, you know, Merry Christmas or have a birthday one of these said, we'll let him tell that story. I knew Lou was leaving. So again, at that point in the 2017 day and to early 18th time frame, I was in a job that UFOs were not on my job, and any former fashion. So I did not do that job. Very conscious throughout my career sticking to what I'm paid to do, right? However, again, Lou and I are friends and the folks that kind of took it over when I left, I knew him all. And you know, I got a face to face, it's called a tampered, it's a kind of face time with Lou and his office. And this was about, I think, three or so days before he dropped his letter and he's holding his letter. You know, there's something that effect, things like, you know, here's what I'm doing. And I said, you know, good luck. And then, you know, loan behold, he's on stage with, with how and, and Steve Justice and the team there, and I'm watching. And it's still at this point. I had no idea it will be back in, in this topic at all, right? I'm watching as an outsider, just like everybody, but I could actually text Lou if I wanted, right? So I had some insider, but I'm watching and, and interested. Are you sympathetic to his stated reasons for leaving it that he was frustrated that I can't get through to the Secretary of Defense and Trump, but this and it needs to be a higher priority? I am. You know, what we needed was, was a recognized program of record as we call it, right? We needed something that had the, the umph behind it, the power behind it, the authority behind it, to do a lot of things in order to get the answers that needed to be, the answers we needed. And you know, I was building towards that later.

And I'm sure we'll talk about the task force, but I had a five-year plan of how we're going to get all of these things that we needed. But if you're just a working group, and trying to do your job and my hat, and maybe at the headquarters, I had a certain amount of wiggle room for trying to get things done in authorities, right? But you needed something above all that. You needed something at that sick death level, at that ODE and I level, that could reach into everything and had the authority to get the answers that needed. And Lu and I knew we needed that. And every time we would try to knock on a door and say, hey, we need that, here's what we know, right? Here's what we've seen. A little bit of history on the offs app and other things. Yeah, you get the door kind of shutting your face because it's back to that careerism. I don't know. This is not, I don't know. I'm afraid of the Washington Post. Was there any involvement of her these stories from people we know about fundamentalist religious people, high-ups who were concerned about its demons or were messing with forces of biblical proportions? There's absolutely some concern there. And I did see it in writing one time in my career where someone was asking me to push back because they're religious concerns. And you should wave off of this topic because literally what they're telling me, shouldn't be involved in this. I know it exists. I think what my professional opinion is after again years and now of being involved is that seems to have died off. I think one, now I'm elevated into that senior level and a lot of my colleagues that were all at the same level that had grown up with me throughout the process, we don't really think that way. Right, so I think kind of the old guard was moving out, the new guard was moving in. And it never once after that early DIA stuff did it ever, ever stop our getting away. It was just early on when kind of that old guards there and protecting their own, you know, what they believe. December 2017 it blows up New York Times story. I don't know if you knew that was coming, but I know, you know, the blue has been through the rigor since then. I also know that Senator Reed, who, you know, let me know it was coming. He starts getting phone calls immediately from former, his former colleagues in the Senate. And they're asking, hey, what's the deal? Does this program real? How do I find out about it? Is that when you get sort of pulled back in and you start doing briefings or? Well, so I was sitting in my office at the other, non, you know, UFO related job. And I get an email from my old boss. There was a link to the New York Times story and she said Merry Christmas, because I had no idea that was coming at all. And it was literally a holy crap, you know, when you're reading that and you have some inside baseball knowledge and, but they didn't have any security concerns. You know, it was like, yeah, if I had security concerns, I would have addressed it with the security concern. I had the, you know, I can't believe we're saying all this and New York Times, because of everything that was involved, right? But I didn't know it was coming. It took me by surprise. I had zero intent at that point of working the topic again and they're just one of them out. They could revack it. It's exactly what happened. Exactly what happened. So my old boss, the sent me the email, some time after that sent me a position and said I should consider it. And I did and I applied and I got that. That was that promotion. I was actually stepping back into office and able to tell you this to do a different job. But at that point, you know, your pilots have been taking the Congress, the Senate Armed Service Committee and all these folks had interest in the topic. And my boss realizing, you know, she knew all along. Hey, I got one guy that's got some history in this and the trust to tackle it appropriately and keep it professional and do all the things that need to be done. So she reached out and said, hey, I want you to take this over. And she really wanted a joint program as a word she used but you know, a joint effort built to tackle this problem and get out ahead of it because of the, now, it's the districts of the world, right? The people that we want to take care of. And I'll only say her name because she's come out herself and with that, I took it, I had the authority. We call it Dirlos, directly, liaison authority. I had directly guys on authority across the entire government. She empowered me with her, you know, her, her power to do that to say just go for it. And I wouldn't let anything stop me unless they threw me out, right? So I started going through my own education and saying, here's what I need. And that came from the years of looking at this and I knew I needed things like the FBI and the Coast Guard and others for their title 18 authorities. I needed folks of the right title, 50 authorities, the folks of the right title, 10 authorities. And to do this right and to get that level of respect and get to those true answers, you've got to have the right people involved, right? So I went out like building business and started knocking on doors and now thanks to my new rank, I pretty much got doors open, right? And previously, they would have might, might would have opened the doors, but now the, I assume this guy has to say, at that point, you know, we had the gimbal and other things right that people know about, but we had more, obviously. I'm going through what we know, we don't know what we think and everywhere I went because, again, of that education of how to present the data, how to present the information, they went, holy crap. How can we help, right? And I ended up with somebody in each organization, it was kind of my belly button and say, hey, this is your guy, he'll help you. And I just started building out that business and that framework and getting the things that we needed to be successful. I would call it at that point a partnership, not a task force, because really, you know, task force is a legal thing and in the DOD circles, but we were this, this partnership with the right people, across the services, everybody approaching it from the right perspective, that thing. No, I started loosely calling it a task force, but that was very loose, it was really, and the way I would brief it as partnership, you know, as I kind of show who's helping out. And but at that point, I am brief and Congress, you know, from that day forward, right? Where I went in and briefed a couple of the committees on my plan, I had what I called a one-pager. Again, I'm, you know, from marketing perspective, everything on one page, and here's what I'm gonna do, and here's how I'm gonna do it, and they loved it, and they got behind it, and you saw some language coming out of the authorization for that. I heard it became a hot ticket that, you know, whereas before it was not nothing that ever popped up in Congress and suddenly, hey, let's have a hearing, show us the video. Absolutely, and again, it's how you present the data, right? And there were plenty, there were still a few of the old guard kind of hanging out that could prevent me from being successful, and some of them did not want to hear from me, right? They don't want to get the briefing, but every time I finally got the brief, they were supportive. Every congressman, I ever briefed, except one, I won't say who, and it gets back to the belief word. Everybody understood where I was coming from, and the problem said, and at the end of the day, the business I built was working, and it was, what we finally needed, right? It's sort of reminds you of Michael Corleoni, just what I'm out, that I thought I was out, they pulled me back in, it's a kind of thing. So, again, he was not a UFO guy, he was doing his job. And each of the times he was asked to do this, he was doing his job. And you know, something else he said, that really impacted me was, you know, he was a really high rank, and I don't want to get into exactly like how that works, but, you know, we'd say in a equivalent of, let's just say, really high rank. So, a lot of people could have pressured him because of their rank to try to diminish the work he was doing, but he resisted that all along the way, and did the right thing, and I just, I thought that was a really cool thing to hear from somebody, and to know it to be true. Yeah, the public knows a lot about the role of Lou Elisando, both in blowing the story wide open, and trying to get a bigger program, and in bringing some of the aviators and other witnesses, escorting them to Congress, he and Chris Melon, work on pushing that ball down the field. Jay Stratton is the unsung hero, who is working in obscurity, but doing the really important stuff, and this was, he didn't have a program, it wasn't called the UAP Task Force. It was after that New York Times story, and Congress starts asking questions that he was putting in charge of an inquiry, you know, to try to pull all the different strings together to start pulling information together and cases, and getting a structure of an organization that became the UAP Task Force later on. Jay Stratton started the UAP Task Force, and that was huge for transparency on the subject. I do wanna say you're like, he's the unsung hero. I'm gonna say though, Lou gets a lot of grief that it's not valid grief. He's really endured a lot of slings and arrows, as you say. So it's like, you know, be in a hero, and this ain't what it cracked up to be, maybe. I mean, he is to me, absolutely a hero to this topic, and I think it's important what he's done. I think Jay coming forward with us on camera. I think I hope.

P is treated differently because man, he's done great things and now the public is going to learn about them. Well you remember, end of 2020, Congress says we want to program, in fact we want to report. You got, here's the legislation. We want that report. You got six months to write it. So January, Jay's organization starts working on it. The UAP Task Force, we're going to put this report together and it's precisely that moment. He gets he ain't got it. And it looked really suspicious. I remember, I reported on it exactly the time when you need him most when the most experienced guy in the U.S. government on the UFO mystery is taken out of it and given another job. But he actually was supposed to be doing that job all along. This was a temporary duty. So he has taken out the people who he had left there. They didn't have a full-time position. They didn't have any full-time positions. They didn't have a budget here. Put this report together for Congress and I think they did a remarkable job in six months to get together. That's right. And he had two people that were putting this report together and I do agree it was a phenomenal job. He even talked about why, in the interviews with us, he even talked about why he started in 2004, rather than going back all the way through UFO history, I was like, why did you start in 2004? And he explains that really well and there's a clip of it. So you get a lot of, you know, I said on numerous occasions, right? Trust is important. And you know, I think it was Colin Powell that said you can't search trust. The minute you're, I mean, we're already 70 years behind the power curve for trust, right? Because everybody says the government's lying to us, right? And the whole blue book thing and the whole Roswell thing killed, killed trust, right? Very good reason why not to even go there, right? And then this whole discussion, you know, the task force and everything else, we kind of started in 2004, right, is Mr. Bracet and the congressional hearings. You got to start somewhere and it might recommendation when I created it, is that that 2004 start data is important because that was the first case in recent history where I had pilot reporting and data, right, back to the data. But you take all of that trust and then you get this bureaucratic machine that is the Department of Defense and the intel community. And then, you know, this is an inner agency, a whole government. So now you're talking about Congress and you're talking about all the other departments, your DHS is in your transportation, right, with FAA and everybody has like, you've got to have a singular message and that's why I wanted the task force to have its own spokesperson so that we're briefing as much as we can of what we're dealing with. But so you get this whole machine and no matter how hard you try, email is not the best communication method, right, and hardly anybody picks up the phone these days. So what would happen to me is I would see a response from the DUD spokesperson that, and I would say, oh my gosh, why did we say that, right, you come back and you try to clean up, but there's no cleaning up at that point. So it was all that circular and then you had agendas, right, you still had, I think you're probably aware of Luz's previous and, you know, you had that happening. And that was also manipulating and driving, because again, DUD is very ranked conscious ranked structured organization, right. So if someone's senior is telling you to do something, it's not illegal, they're probably, you know, don't want to risk things and go with it. So I think you had some of that go on. Now I'll tell you, even as they had the task force, I didn't, I didn't get into those politics on purpose. In fact, I went back to my old days. The fence intelligence agency when I was saying, you were nationally funded and I need to make an assessment that isn't manipulated by politics, which is actually the law now, following 9 and 11. I stuck to my guns that I, I am here to, you know, working on behalf of the Intel community to give American people an answer and numerous occasions. Anytime someone tried to play the ranked game, I would just stick to my guns. Essentially, the idea that he would choose a date where they have a great amount of systems data and move forward from there, it makes total sense. And I think that was a very smart move. I'm sure there is historic data that we can look at now, but I think that was a great starting point. So that was very cool when he did that. And the two people that he tasked with doing that report, again, did a remarkable job. There's something else he did that you and I have referenced in various reports without attributing it to him in any way, because it couldn't use his name. But there was a briefing presentation that was put together. And it was an accumulation of all these cases that Jay and his colleagues had been investigating. And a lot of them were had included video and photos and things of that sort. And he put this together as a briefing presentation for higher ups in the Pentagon, for members of Congress, for defense contractors and for the intelligence community. And he made the case, hey, this is real. This is a genuine unknown. This is a national security matter. We need to take a look at it. I understand it's a very persuasive piece of information, but some of the images that were in that briefing document. It's classified, but some of the images that came from that are not classified. Right. I mean, we'll be clear because we've been clear all along the way is as journalists obtaining and releasing unclassified information is absolutely fine. No designation, nothing like that. Sure, something could be contained within something classified. I don't know what I know for sure is that it was confirmed by the Pentagon. That stuff that we ended up releasing, especially regarding the 2019 events on the West Coast, which is something we've covered on an episode at length, one of our last episodes. And I think that the key thing here that I think people should know is that you've got this audio, visual presentation that is being shared within multiple intelligence agencies why the reason why appears to be to destigmatize, to acclimate people to the possibility of how do you report this and to encourage reporting going right back up the chain of command where it should go, which is a smooth and cool process. Prom was they didn't respond a lot to people when they were reported up and they realized that was an error and that they should give feedback so people know these reports are going somewhere. We're taking them seriously. He also needed to find a way to get beyond NDAs, because sometimes you just overclassify stuff and people have to do an NDA because something was seen or picked up and they have to go to the process of getting past NDAs, which I don't know he ever got, but I think that's important moving forward for, you know, for error if it's going to do some great work. Yeah, a lot of those cases that were part of his briefing presentation ended up as part of the UAP Task Force Report to Congress. They didn't spell it out and any instances, but we know that that is the case and that the Congress did respond and did take it seriously. Jay Stratton left government in 2021 and entered the private sector. He was happy to move to Huntsville, Alabama, to work for radians. He was happy to bring Travis Taylor along and as we know, you know, we've been able to share at least a couple of excerpts from this interview that we did. There's a lot more coming from Jay Stratton, I think, in 2023. Oh, I know. Yeah, we know. I mean, he is making it a point to communicate as clearly as possible with the American public about his roles, what he did, what he hopes for the future with this, what's currently going on. I think it's great that people will be seeing a lot of him that he'll be coming and talking about his roles and experiences. I think when you can put a face, you know what I mean to these people that were really before the unsung heroes. I mean, Intel community people are deep inside. They don't want to be in front of a camera, but now that people come forward a little bit and give other people the encouragement and the permission, I think that that's very powerful for witnesses that have been part of UFO exploitation and reverse engineering programs and legacy programs or current programs to come forward through the new legislation that has been passed into law, the protects whistleblowers. And in fact, it's not just a right to come forward. In fact, it's a duty. If there have been programs that have been hidden from congressional oversight, proper congressional oversight, you have a legal duty to come forward. So I really hope people are encouraged by this in these programs that we do know exist, that they do come forward and that they share with our Senate Intelligence Committee or whatever the process is at this point to get this information for, then hopefully out to American public, this technology is important, man. A totally great, you know, I want to say this also about J. Stratton, although I've been allowed to know of him and then to know him, he is not a source. He did not leak any of these images to us. This is a guy who plays by the rules. It drove me crazy to know a guy like that who could answer these questions and who could has access to all kinds of materials that I have not seen that you haven't seen, that the public hasn't seen, but he played by the rules. He used a stickler about that. Now that he's in the private sector and he is a public citizen of private citizen, he has a lot more flexibility to pursue these subjects. He's definitely hooked on it now. If he wasn't before, he is now. And we're going to hear a lot more from him in 2023, but I just want to make it clear. He's not a leaker. He didn't leak any stuff to us. It's so funny, man. People are going to try to, I would too try to guess how this way. Everybody's been wrong. Everybody's been wrong about how information gets to journalists. We don't need to...

You know, constantly telling, we would never have a source on. But the thing is, is like, what does it mean to be a source? Sometimes, you and I have received stuff that we don't know exactly who or where came from. So our job for years sometimes, which is what's now a lot of that's coming out. But like, for years, it's to figure out the validity of information rather than the source of information. That's interesting, isn't that? That's something unexpected to me. You know, the people who are real heroes in this saga, this ongoing saga, Dr. James LaCatsky, who's single, almost single, handedly, with the help of Harry Reid and Robert Bigel had got the ASAP program created. And then Lu Elazando, who rescued the remnants of it and got a tip and kept it going. And then Jay, Stratton, who was part of all of this, all those programs and beyond into the current era, he might be the most important UFO government UFO investigator ever of all of them. And it's so great to be able to talk to him. We have so much more that we haven't been able to share yet, but we will, over the next course of the year, and hopefully he'll be here to live sometime. Yeah, and look, this program, however, this audio and visual program, it's because we know we can now. Now we're gonna have people here. It's every time we're able to use this to get stuff out that you and I wouldn't normally be able to get out in any traditional means. So I am excited. It would be great right here if there was somebody who worked in one of the government UFO programs that could sit right here next to us. Wouldn't that be great? Well, look at the wheels that are turning because of the work of the guys I just mentioned. Like Hatsky, Colom Calahir, Lu Elazando, Jay Stratton, the work that they did, toiling an obscurity for so many years, is really paying dividends. I mean, this is not a terrific report, but the fact that it exists at all is amazing. The fact that they have now have a streamlined process and have taken away some of the stigma attached to reporting UFOs is amazing progress in a short period of time. And Congress maintaining an ongoing interest in this. They're demanding more information. We don't know what's in the classified version of this, but it's exciting. It's awesome, and the legislation that offers protection to whistleblowers is also very exciting, that we're gonna be exploring over the next nine, 10 months. Is this George Nap being optimistic about that? Let me take that back. Let me take it back. Then you can't think of that. I heard it loud and clear, it sounded like George Nap is being optimistic about. You have our transparency in some way. Look, man, we're only gonna get as far as we push it. Nobody wants to give up information. You know, if it's special to them, there's no reason to, but I think if the public demands it, we ask nicely and shake the doors a little bit. Look, there are great people within our, the majority of our armed services, our intelligence agencies. You know, they are just like us. They're curious about this, they're excited about it. If it's not a matter of national security, this is stuff that should be told to the American public. So I am very optimistic by nature, but it was kind of cool to hear some optimism from you. You're not so optimistic sometimes when it comes to traveling because of your curse. And I wanna finish this trip and remind you what happened. So we are, we do these great interviews and we're just stoked, man, it was really fun. We met really interesting folks that we ended up having friendships with along the way who I'm sure you will hear from in the future who are involved in this topic, deeply. So we're like, okay, let's just get home. And of course, we're on some horrible airline. There's this photo I put up on social media. We look like Gorilla's man, we're, we have our bags and we're just walking down this runway just trying to get on this plane. We're all messed up because guess what? Turns out Miles, if COVID didn't kill you, I was gonna kill you. My buddy who we were with all week had really bad COVID. I'm like bleeding coughs and I was like, oh man, you and I, we escaped it. We thought we escaped. There we are in the plane. And then we get this lightning storm. I have never seen so much lightning in my life out of window. It was like, it just felt like doom because of your travel curse. But we got back and we still had to sit on this story for, we had to sit on the story up until now and a lot of times. So it was, it's funny, as a journalist, you've probably dealt with this tons, but you gotta really respect that someone gives you their trust and they're allowing you to do this. So you gotta time everything right. You can't just throw something up on YouTube or throw something out on Twitter. You have to do it responsibly. Check everything before you do it. And God forbid you make a mistake, but if you do, you say it, right? So that was kind of a neat trip. We get back and man, we were tired, but we got what we needed. Yeah, we got so much material from Dr. Taylor and from Jerry Stratton and the folks at Radiance and then the people, other people, we met at the SCU conference. And we were really excited to go ahead and share it with the public, but it takes time, you know? We didn't have the OK to go ahead and spill all those beans. We do now. We have permission from Jay to use some parts of that interview and I think we're probably gonna be using more in the future and hopefully we'll be hearing from him live, maybe on the stage and maybe on other stages. This episode is brought to you by Nature's Bounty. Nature's Bounty believes your body is brilliant, naturally designed to thrive, inside and out. For those always looking for new ways to support your health from head to heels, Nature's Bounty has a range of over 400 vitamins and supplements born from 50 years of trust and care. Nature's Bounty, it's in your nature. Visit naturesbounty.com to learn more. OK, so what's the big picture now? Like as we do these and we try to put these pieces together for public consumption. And here we are in 2023, you know, what's the big picture man? Where are we going with this from reports to error to other agencies we know that are interested in the UFO subject, like where are we going with this man? Well, we know that because of that legislation, there are whistleblowers who are lined up, at least a few of them that we know of, who are lined up prepared to tell what they know. The most interesting, unanswered question is where are the goodies? Is there met a materials stashed in a warehouse? Are there intact craft as Bob Lazarus suggested somewhere out in the desert? Are there bodies? You know, there are people who have told us that they know that those things are true, that there are materials, exotic materials from somewhere else. The question is, are they going to be allowed to speak? Now, I did express a little bit of optimism a couple of minutes ago, but I think for them, it's still a dicey deal, you know? Stepping forward to tell these incredibly sensitive secrets comes with the risk. And we know that there are at least some of them who are already facing potential consequences for agreeing to step forward. Hopefully the stories will come out. The information will be conveyed to Congress, whether or not that information gets to us, the public, that's another matter, but we'll be doing our best to get it out. The process designed through the whisperer protection stuff, the idea of using something like the Inspector General to move forward with complaints of reprisal and this sort of thing, I think it is fair to say because we've said before, that process, whether or not it has been formalized, there are people in this subject who are using the right mechanisms to get the information where it needs to go at a fear of reprisal. That is something current, that is happening. So I'm encouraged that that process is there to protect people, ultimate goal, let's just say it like it is. There are UFO study programs in multiple agencies across every branch of our military, many of which we know about the idea is, can they go through a formal process to bring those illegal programs to where they should go? This shouldn't be a job of journalism, this should be a job of cleaning house, this should be something that they do on the inside. Journals do what they do, this should be clear and straightforward. If there are unknown illegal programs dealing with non-terrestrial technologies, yes, that's a huge issue for humanity, but this also needs to be fixed on the inside. Absolutely, and this report, for example, there's a line in there that I found pretty interesting. It says that we have no evidence of any direct human health consequences of exposure to UFOs. I can hope that sometime in the next 12 months that the arrow folks will go down the hall and knock on the door at the DIA and ask to see the OSAP files, because OSAP, as we have reported, has very definitive evidence about harmful consequences from people who got too close to UFOs. And there are some very dramatic and well-documented cases that the DIA program followed for a number of years. So having seen some of these reports, the thing you're saying is that arrow, who's studying the UFO phenomenon, they should already have all this documentation of a huge program like OSAP that clearly shows that there have been health issues that have been caused directly from close proximity to UAP. And they don't seem to have any knowledge of that. It was similar to the two guys who appeared before they're congressional hearing. The first congressional hearing of 54 years when they were asked about nuclear incidents, incidents or a nuclear missile.

This is not, they don't know anything about it. Well, there are some pretty dramatic cases that were studied also by OSAP that were written up into reports. All they have to do is ask for it. Congress seemed to only know a little bits and pieces. They were unaware, seemingly unaware that OSAP ever existed. When the Navy guys were asked, is there anything between Project, Blue Book and A-Tip? Nope. Well, that's not true. I mean, you know, it was a lot of money. Millions of public dollars were spent on that. The stories have been all over the world. The book has been written of the people who are involved in the program of Comfort and talked about it. How can they not know? Yeah, no. Yeah, ma'am. So I guess, you know, kind of where we're at here is it would be really great to hear from somebody who actually worked in these programs. And I think we're going to get that pretty soon. Thanks for kind of telling us about the report and getting to the point we're at. I guess where I'm at is I'm just excited to see kind of how this is all assimilated into our processes like so that I want the American public to know if this is true. I, you know, I don't have the luxury of disbelief on certain things, but I want it to be stated and boldly stated, I don't know, when that's going to come and what the truth is or what the full truth is, but I think we're getting closer. Well, the public also needs to understand as OSAP came to realize that this is way beyond just UFOs. You're never going to solve this mystery just by studying lights in the sky or craft that appear on the sensor and you can't see with your own eyes. You have to look at the big picture. And unfortunately, a lot of that gets really weird. So strange, maybe it's almost by design. That it's so strange that people are reluctant to dig into it. That's how many in the Pentagon seemingly reacted to the reports that came in from OSAP, from the Big Low Organization, it gets really strange. The stuff that skinwalker is really strange. It's easy to make fun of. It's easy to dismiss because it's so strange, but it really did happen. And the reports that have not yet been made public lay it out in very specific detail and we're going to be getting into that more in the course of the next few months on this program. Absolutely. And I just want to kind of testify here that I think I'm nuts and bolts. My family thinks I'm just fucking nuts, but the thing is that I have a resistance. I have a resistance to the high strangers, to the weirdness, to the things that seem to happen around the UFO phenomenon. I am cool with Bob Lazar's description of craft, as an example. That's what initially the science of that, how that would work. I am cool with the nuts and bolts. I get an allergy when it comes to the weirder stuff. And you know, that's why even with everything I know that have seen and been briefed on, I have an allergy to it. So I can understand the public kind of trying to be like, that's too weird to be true. We can accept flying saucers. We can accept UFOs. We can accept reverse engineering and governments hiding this and there being a cover up to some degree. We can accept that. But when it gets weirder, I empathize with the resistance to it. Now, I'm going to try. I'm going to try to look at straight and say, look at it, just like I would anything else. But I think hearing from people directly who have direct experiences in these programs, that's going to be the key to understanding that. Well, Dr. James LeCatsky has spent 20 years as a rocket scientist at the DIA. That's as nuts and bolts as you get, studying rockets, our rockets, other nation's rockets, potential threats. Jay Stratton, his friend and colleague, also at the DIA, nuts and bolts guy, reverse engineering, how to figure out technology, figuring out the nature of threats, of all sorts, both nuts and bolts people, who came to understand that this mystery goes way beyond nuts and bolts. Jay Stratton, we've heard from him today in pieces of the conversation that you and I had with him. What we haven't heard is some of his personal experiences and that goes way beyond just studying lights in the sky. And hopefully, sometime in the course of 2023, he's going to open up about that. Yeah, well, look, man, I'm looking forward to it. As always, I'm willing to learn and the main thing is, I think that having those direct conversations are going to help around the corners for a lot of people, including myself. So anyway, thanks, man, that would be fun. Yeah, all right. Yeah. Follow him as to the weaponized, the presentation of Jeremy Corball, George Nap, Dark Horse Entertainment, and cadence 13 studios available now for free on the Odyssey app wherever you get your shows.